# Git
 
 
## Installation
 
- Linux `$ sudo apt-get install git-core`
- Mac `$ sudo apt-get install git-core`
- Windows http://code.google.com/p/msysgit
 
 
## Introduction
 
1. Working directory - project files
2. Staging area - state between the working directory and git directory
3. Git directory - repository
 
The files are added from the working directory to the staging area - so called snapshot is created.
The commit is done from the staging area to the repository.

 
Staging area can be skipped
 
http://progit.org/book/pl/
 
 
## Configuration
 
User identity
 
`$ git config --global user.name "John Smith"`
 
`$ git config --global user.email johnsmith@example.com`
 
Colors in console
 
`$ git config --global color.ui auto`
 
 
## Basics
 
Creation of the repository
 
```
$ mkdir project1
$ cd project1
$ git init
```
 
First commit
 
```
$ echo "Hello World!" >> file.txt
$ git status
$ git add -A && git commit -m 'creation of file.txt'
```
 
`$ git status` - shows the status
 
`$ git add -A` - adds all new, modified and deleted files to the staging area.
 
`$ git commit -m 'description...'` - adds files from the staging area to the repository
 
 
`;` separates the commands and executes them independently. 
`&&` executes the commands dependently, if there was an error in previous then the next one will not be executed.
 
 
`$ git add -A && git commit -m 'description...'` - "skipping the staging area"
 
 
## Git Log
 
viewing the commits history
 
`$ git log`
 
- `--stat` - sums up the changes in the files 
- `-p` - exact differences in the files
- `-5` - last 5 commits
 
For example: `git log --stat -5`
 
## Git Diff
 
1. `$ git diff` - difference between the working directory and the staging area
2. `$ git diff --cached` - difference between the staging area and the last commit
3. `$ git diff HEAD` - difference between the working directory and the last commit 
 
`--stat` - sum of the changes in the files, for example: `$ git diff --stat`   
 
## The central repository
 
The central repository is `bare`.
This repository do not have the working directory and the staging area.


### Creation of the central repository
 
```
$ cd /Volumes/httpdocs/vhosts/project1/ios/
$ mkdir project1.git
$ cd projeckt1.git
$ git init --bare
```
 
### Local repository
 
Clone of the central repository: 
 
```
$ cd /Users/user/Documents/
$ git clone /Volumes/httpdocs/vhosts/project1/ios/project1.git
```

`project1` will be created.
 
or hook to the existing repository:

```
$ cd /Users/user/Documents/project1
$ git remote add origin /Volumes/httpdocs/vhosts/project1/ios/project1.git
```
 
 
### Adding the data to the local repository and pushing the changes to the central
 
```
$ cd project1
$ cp -r path-to-project-files/* .
$ git add -A && git commit -m 'project start'
$ git push origin master
```
 
### Another user
 
```
$ cd /Users/another-user/Documents/
$ git clone /Volumes/httpdocs/vhosts/project1/ios/project1.git
$ cd project1
$ git log
```
 
### Work with the remote repository
 
Our changes:
 
```
$ echo "new line of text" >> file.txt
$ git add -A && git commit -m 'added a new line of text'
```
 
Before pushing our changes to the central repository it is necessary to download the current version: 
 
```
$ git pull origin master
```
 
Usually conflicts are resolved automatically (files are merged).
If it is not possible then the command `git mergetool` should be fired:
 
```
$ git mergetool
// here would be opened the external program for file merging  
// after the end of the merging the program has to be closed
$ git add -A && git commit -m 'resolve the conflicts in some method'
```
 
Then we push the changes to the central repository:
 
```
$ git push origin master
```
 

## Ignoring files
 
plik `.gitignore`
 
```
.error
nbproject
*~
```
